README.rst, before:

=============================
Eucalyptus Management Console
=============================

The Eucalyptus Management Console is a web-based interface to a local Eucalyptus cloud and/or AWS services.


AWS Services supported
======================

* EC2
* Auto Scaling
* CloudWatch
* IAM


Development environment setup
=============================

Prerequisites
-------------
Prior to installing Pyramid and it's dependencies, you may need to install the following libraries...

* libevent-dev (required by gevent)
* openssl (required by M2Crypto)

Ubuntu: `apt-get install libevent-dev openssl`
Fedora: `yum install libevent-devel openssl-devel`
OS X: `brew install libevent openssl`

Pyramid Setup
-------------
Run `python setup.py develop` to set up the development environment.
This only needs to be run once or when the "requires" package versions in setup.py are modified.

Note: It is strongly recommended to set up the development environment in a virtualenv.

Sass/Compass Setup
------------------
The CSS files are pre-processed using Sass, so you'll need to set up a Sass-to-CSS watcher to output CSS.

To set up Compass as the file watcher...

    sudo gem install compass
    cd koala/static
    compass watch .

Once you have installed compass, there's a handy shortcut to enable the watcher.  From the repo root...

    make watch


Running the management console
==============================
To run the server, you will need to specify the path to the config file (console.ini).
Copy the default ini file to the application root.  At the repo root...

    cp conf/console.default.ini ./console.ini

The default settings assume an SSL environment.  To disable SSL, set session.secure to false in console.ini

    session.secure = false

Run the server with

    ./launcher.sh

`launcher.sh` is provided as an alias for `python runapp.py`


Running the server in development/debug mode
--------------------------------------------
The launcher.sh script runs the application with gunicorn and gevent,
closely matching the production deployment setup.

To have Pyramid automatically detect modifications to templates and views,

1. Change the reload_templates setting to true in console.ini: `pyramid.reload_templates = true`
2. Run the server with the --reload flag: `pserve console.ini --reload`

The `--reload` flag instructs Pyramid to automatically watch for changes in the view callables.

The Pyramid Debug Toolbar can be enabled by adding pyramid_debugtoolbar to the app:main section of console.ini

    [app:main]
    # ...
    pyramid.includes =
        pyramid_beaker
        pyramid_chameleon
        pyramid_debugtoolbar
        pyramid_layout

You may also find it useful to set the logging level to DEBUG in the console.ini config file...

    [logger_root]
    # ...
    handlers = logfile, screen_debug

The management console assumes an SSL setup. To disable SSL for development purposes, set `session.secure = false`
in the config file (console.ini)


Running the server in production mode
-------------------------------------
A production deployment assumes an SSL setup, requiring nginx. To configure nginx...

1. Copy the nginx.conf file at conf/nginx.conf to your system's nginx.conf location
    - Location is usually /etc/nginx/nginx.conf on Linux and /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf on OS X
2. Configure the location of the static folder (location /static/.*)
3. Configure SSL (specify paths to certificate and key files)


Running the tests
-----------------
The unit tests are based on Python's standard unittest library.

To run all tests, run the following at the repo root:

    python setup.py test


Technology Stack
================

Primary Components
------------------
* Pyramid
* Boto
* Zurb Foundation
* AngularJS

Secondary Components
--------------------
* Beaker and pyramid_beaker (server-side cache/sessions)
* Chameleon (server-side templates)
* pyramid_layout (layout/themes for Pyramid)
* Waitress or gunicorn (WSGI server)
* WTForms (server-side forms and validation)

Commit message:

Update readme with M2Crypto install note for Fedora et. al.

README.rst, after:

=============================
Eucalyptus Management Console
=============================

The Eucalyptus Management Console is a web-based interface to a local Eucalyptus cloud and/or AWS services.


AWS Services supported
======================

* EC2
* Auto Scaling
* CloudWatch
* IAM


Development environment setup
=============================

Prerequisites
-------------
Prior to installing Pyramid and it's dependencies, you may need to install the following libraries...

* libevent-dev (required by gevent)
* openssl (required by M2Crypto)

Ubuntu: `apt-get install libevent-dev openssl`
Fedora: `yum install libevent-devel openssl-devel`
OS X: `brew install libevent openssl`


Pyramid Setup
-------------
Run `python setup.py develop` to set up the development environment.
This only needs to be run once or when the "requires" package versions in setup.py are modified.

Note: It is strongly recommended to set up the development environment in a virtualenv.

If setup.py fails with an M2Crypto error and you're on a yum-based system (Fedora, CentOS, RHEL),
see http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4380191/installing-m2crypto-on-centos

Sass/Compass Setup
------------------
The CSS files are pre-processed using Sass, so you'll need to set up a Sass-to-CSS watcher to output CSS.

To set up Compass as the file watcher...

    sudo gem install compass
    cd koala/static
    compass watch .

Once you have installed compass, there's a handy shortcut to enable the watcher.  From the repo root...

    make watch


Running the management console
==============================
To run the server, you will need to specify the path to the config file (console.ini).
Copy the default ini file to the application root.  At the repo root...

    cp conf/console.default.ini ./console.ini

The default settings assume an SSL environment.  To disable SSL, set session.secure to false in console.ini

    session.secure = false

Run the server with

    ./launcher.sh

`launcher.sh` is provided as an alias for `python runapp.py`


Running the server in development/debug mode
--------------------------------------------
The launcher.sh script runs the application with gunicorn and gevent,
closely matching the production deployment setup.

To have Pyramid automatically detect modifications to templates and views,

1. Change the reload_templates setting to true in console.ini: `pyramid.reload_templates = true`
2. Run the server with the --reload flag: `pserve console.ini --reload`

The `--reload` flag instructs Pyramid to automatically watch for changes in the view callables.

The Pyramid Debug Toolbar can be enabled by adding pyramid_debugtoolbar to the app:main section of console.ini

    [app:main]
    # ...
    pyramid.includes =
        pyramid_beaker
        pyramid_chameleon
        pyramid_debugtoolbar
        pyramid_layout

You may also find it useful to set the logging level to DEBUG in the console.ini config file...

    [logger_root]
    # ...
    handlers = logfile, screen_debug

The management console assumes an SSL setup. To disable SSL for development purposes, set `session.secure = false`
in the config file (console.ini)


Running the server in production mode
-------------------------------------
A production deployment assumes an SSL setup, requiring nginx. To configure nginx...

1. Copy the nginx.conf file at conf/nginx.conf to your system's nginx.conf location
    - Location is usually /etc/nginx/nginx.conf on Linux and /usr/local/etc/nginx/nginx.conf on OS X
2. Configure the location of the static folder (location /static/.*)
3. Configure SSL (specify paths to certificate and key files)


Running the tests
-----------------
The unit tests are based on Python's standard unittest library.

To run all tests, run the following at the repo root:

    python setup.py test


Technology Stack
================

Primary Components
------------------
* Pyramid
* Boto
* Zurb Foundation
* AngularJS

Secondary Components
--------------------
* Beaker and pyramid_beaker (server-side cache/sessions)
* Chameleon (server-side templates)
* pyramid_layout (layout/themes for Pyramid)
* Waitress or gunicorn (WSGI server)
* WTForms (server-side forms and validation)
